Adding oci artifacts draft (#334)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/open-source/oci/what-are-oci-artifacts.md

---
title: "What are OCI Artifacts?"
type: "article"
description: "OCI Artifacts are a way of using OCI registries, or container registries that are compliant with specifications set by the Open Container Initiative, to store arbitrary files."
date: 2022-06-09T15:22:20+01:00
lastmod: 2022-06-09T15:22:20+01:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "oci"
weight: 150
toc: true
---

> [OCI artifacts](http://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts) are a way of using OCI registries, or container registries that are compliant with specifications set by the [Open Container Initiative](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/oci/what-is-the-oci/), to store arbitrary files. While container registries were originally designed to store and distribute images, container engineers are increasingly using them to store non-container files such as Helm charts, Tekton bundles, and policy modules. By storing associated objects in the same infrastructure as containers, container engineers can consolidate their security and management efforts. Another benefit of using OCI registries is that provide a [content-addressable API](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/oci/what-is-the-oci/#image-manifest), a way of referring to files that assures their authenticity and integrity.  

Reviewer: same as jason's comment, we shouldnt ever link to https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts

> [OCI artifacts](http://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts) are a way of using OCI registries, or container registries that are compliant with specifications set by the [Open Container Initiative](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/oci/what-is-the-oci/), to store arbitrary files. While container registries were originally designed to store and distribute images, container engineers are increasingly using them to store non-container files such as Helm charts, Tekton bundles, and policy modules. By storing associated objects in the same infrastructure as containers, container engineers can consolidate their security and management efforts. Another benefit of using OCI registries is that provide a [content-addressable API](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/oci/what-is-the-oci/#image-manifest), a way of referring to files that assures their authenticity and integrity.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OCI artifacts are a way of using OCI registries, or container registries that are compliant with specifications set by the [Open Container Initiative](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/oci/what-is-the-oci/), to store arbitrary files. While container registries were originally designed to store and distribute images, container engineers are increasingly using them to store non-container files such as Helm charts, Tekton bundles, and policy modules. By storing associated objects in the same infrastructure as containers, container engineers can consolidate their security and management efforts. Another benefit of using OCI registries is that they provide a [content-addressable API](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/oci/what-is-the-oci/#image-manifest), a way of referring to files that assures their authenticity and integrity.  
```

> OCI artifacts are sometimes misunderstood as a new specification or format but they are in fact just a way of using the OCI Image Specification to store something other than an image in a container registry. The Image Specification requires a particular format for the [Image Manifest](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/oci/what-is-the-oci/#image-manifest), and the inclusion of the specified OCI `mediaTypes` values `application/vnd.oci.image.config.v1+json` and `application/vnd.oci.image.layer.v1.tar+gzip` in the `config` and `layers` fields. To store an artifact using the Image Specification, you need to change the `mediaTypes` values in the `config` and `layers` fields as in the example manifest below.  

Reviewer 2: Not sure if we need "just" for emphasis, but up to you. Do you want to spell out that the `mediaTypes` values are for JSON data and compressed files?

```suggestion
OCI artifacts are sometimes misunderstood as a new specification or format but they are in fact a way of using the OCI Image Specification to store something other than an image in a container registry. The Image Specification requires a particular format for the [Image Manifest](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/oci/what-is-the-oci/#image-manifest), and the inclusion of the specified OCI `mediaTypes` values `application/vnd.oci.image.config.v1+json` and `application/vnd.oci.image.layer.v1.tar+gzip` in the `config` and `layers` fields. To store an artifact using the Image Specification, you need to change the `mediaTypes` values in the `config` and `layers` fields as in the example manifest below.  
```

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 2,
  // no top-level mediaType to indicate OCI
  "config": {
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.yourcustomartifact+json",
    "size": 233,
    "digest": "sha245:..."
  },
  "layers": [{
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.yourcustomartifact.tar.gzip",
    "size": 680,
    "digest": "sha245:..."
  }]
}
```

In the example manifest above, the  `config` field contains the custom `mediaType` value `application/vnd.yourcustomartifact+json` and the `layers` fields contains the custom `mediaType` value `application/vnd.yourcustomartifact.tar.gzip`.

> 

Reviewer: So below we say that cosign is using OCI artifacts to ship SBOMs, but the way it has been described here is false.

It might be worth saying something along the lines of "OCI artifacts may also sometimes masquerade as OCI images, using typical OCI image mediatypes. What matters is that the tools that produce them know how to properly use them. Cosign, for example, uses OCI image mediatypes in order to gain better support across clouds and registries. See [this PR](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/pull/2684) for ongoing work to use custom mediatypes. In future versions of OCI specs (1.1+), this usage of mediatypes will be made clearer."

Dan goes into detail about cosign's position on this debate here: https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/pull/999#issuecomment-1413070594

Author: super helpful! adding revisions that reflect this information - thanks!

## OCI Artifacts and Software Supply Chain Security 
For software supply chain security, OCI artifacts offer a useful way to store [SBOMs](​​https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/sbom/what-is-an-sbom/) and signatures inside a container registry. 

> An **SBOM**, or software bill of materials, is a formally structured list of libraries, modules, licensing, and version information that make up any given piece of software. When a vulnerability security advisory is issued, SBOMs enable software operators to quickly see whether their codebase contains any components associated with the vulnerability. A [**signature**](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/sigstore/cosign/an-introduction-to-cosign/) is a way of verifying that you are the author of your software, and that it has not been tampered with by a third party. 

Reviewer 2: I think the signature language can be a little bit tighter

```suggestion
An **SBOM**, or software bill of materials, is a formally structured list of libraries, modules, licensing, and version information that make up any given piece of software. When a vulnerability security advisory is issued, SBOMs enable software operators to quickly understand whether their codebase contains any components associated with the vulnerability. A [**signature**](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/sigstore/cosign/an-introduction-to-cosign/) is a way of attesting to the fact that you are the author of your software, and enables the consumer to verify that signature and verify that the software has not been tampered with by a third party. 
```

> The open source tool [Cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign), part of the [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev/) project, enables container engineers to sign their images and artifacts and store them as an artifact in an OCI registry. You can also use Cosign to store SBOMs as artifacts in an OCI registry. To learn more about storing signatures as artifacts, visit the [section on counter signing](

Reviewer 2: I would use the broader "swe" vs "container engineer" here since Cosign works for any software artifact.

Do you think we need to double down on "store them as artifacts in an OCI registry" or can it be streamlined to "store them in an OCI registry"?

```suggestion
The open source tool [Cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign), part of the [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev/) project, enables software engineers to sign their images and other software artifacts and store them as artifacts in an OCI registry. You can also use Cosign to store SBOMs as artifacts in an OCI registry. To learn more about storing signatures as artifacts, visit the [section on counter signing](
```

Author: Fixed in local environment

https://github.com/sigstore/cosign#counter-signing) in the Cosign repo. To learn more about storing SBOMs as artifacts, visit the [section on signing SBOMs](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/other_types/#sboms-software-bill-of-materials) in Sigstore’s documentation.  

>  ## Considerations 

Reviewer: extra space before ##

> Community usage and guidance of OCI artifacts is actively evolving and there are a few things to keep in mind when using them. First, not all registries support artifacts, and the [OCI Image Specification](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec) recommends avoiding the use of artifacts if you are concerned about portability. Best practices are still also under debate, giving rise to the [OCI Reference Types Working Group](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types), which is considering different ways of describing and handling objects stored in an OCI registry. You can read a more about the proposals the group is currently considering by visiting the [Intro to OCI Reference Types](https://www.chainguard.dev/unchained/intro-to-oci-reference-types) post on Chainguard’s blog. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Community usage and guidance of OCI artifacts is actively evolving and there are a few considerations to keep in mind when you are planning on using them. First, not all registries support artifacts, and the [OCI Image Specification](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec) recommends avoiding the use of artifacts if you are concerned about portability. Recommended practices are still also under debate, giving rise to the [OCI Reference Types Working Group](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types), which is considering different ways of describing and handling objects stored in an OCI registry. You can read more about the proposals the group is currently considering by visiting the [Intro to OCI Reference Types](https://www.chainguard.dev/unchained/intro-to-oci-reference-types) post on Chainguard’s blog. 
```

OCI artifacts are sometimes misunderstood as a new specification or format but they are in fact just a way of using the OCI Image Specification to store something other than an image in a container registry. The Image Specification requires a particular format for the [Image Manifest](https://edu.chainguard.dev/open-source/oci/what-is-the-oci/#image-manifest), and the inclusion of the specified OCI `mediaTypes` values `application/vnd.oci.image.config.v1+json` and `application/vnd.oci.image.layer.v1.tar+gzip` in the `config` and `layers` fields. To store an artifact using the Image Specification, you need to change the `mediaTypes` values in the `config` and `layers` fields as in the example manifest below.  

```json

> {
> “schemaVersion”:2.
> // no top-level mediaType to indicate OCI
> “config”: {
> “mediaType”: “application/vnd.yourcustomartifact+json”,
> “Size”: 233,
> “Digest”: “sha245:...”
> },
> “Layers”: [
> {
> “mediaType:” “application/vnd.yourcustomartifact.tar.gzip”,
> “Size”: 680,
> “Digest”: “sha245:...”
> }
> ]
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{
  "schemaVersion": 2.
  // no top-level mediaType to indicate OCI
  "config": {
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.yourcustomartifact+json",
    "size": 233,
    "digest": "sha245:..."
  },
  "layers": [{
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.yourcustomartifact.tar.gzip",
    "size": 680,
    "digest": "sha245:..."
  }]
}
```

The smart quotes (`“`) make this difficult to copy/paste, and the fields are supposed to be lower-cased.

Author: ah good catch thank you!

https://github.com/sigstore/cosign#counter-signing) in the Cosign repo. To learn more about storing SBOMs as artifacts, visit the [section on signing SBOMs](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/other_types/#sboms-software-bill-of-materials) in Sigstore’s documentation.  

 ## Considerations 
Community usage and guidance of OCI artifacts is actively evolving and there are a few things to keep in mind when using them. First, not all registries support artifacts, and the [OCI Image Specification](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec) recommends avoiding the use of artifacts if you are concerned about portability. Best practices are still also under debate, giving rise to the [OCI Reference Types Working Group](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types)], which is considering different ways of describing and handling objects stored in an OCI registry.

> To learn more about OCI artifacts, visit the Open Container Initiative’s [artifact repo on Github](https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts). You can also read about the current proposals for the OCI Reference Types Working Groups by visiting the [Intro to OCI Reference Types](https://www.chainguard.dev/unchained/intro-to-oci-reference-types) post on Chainguard’s blog. 

Reviewer 3: I think we still plan to archive the artifacts repo and move its guidance into the image-spec repo, so maybe just drop this link for now, since it might get stale.
